README.md, before:

# Kanal::Interfaces::Telegram

Welcome to Telegram interface!

Integrate this interface into your Kanal app workflow and it will handle the incoming messages containing plain text or media (images, audio, videos, documents). You can attach media to your responses as well.

Upon receiving a message or callback from end-user, Telegram interface will transform incoming data into standard Kanal input and feed it to router. Router will form an output (or outputs), which will be sent to Telegram interface. Telegram interface will send a message (or messages) to end-user.

It is advised to use telegram interface with Telegram bridge which converts Telegram interface input/output properties to standard Kanal properties.

## Installation

Install the gem and add to the application's Gemfile by executing:

    $ bundle add kanal-interfaces-telegram

If bundler is not being used to manage dependencies, install the gem by executing:

    $ gem install kanal-interfaces-telegram

## Usage

1. Create instance of Core:

```core = Kanal::Core::Core.new```

2. Create instance of Telegram interface

```bot = Kanal::Interfaces::Telegram::TelegramInterface.new core, "YOUR_TOKEN"```

3. (Add bridge here???)

4. Configure your Kanal router - add responses for certain conditions (specific cases will be described further)
```
core.router.configure do
    on :contains, text: "Hello" do
        respond do
            body "World!"
        end
    end
    
    #etc...
end
```

5. Start your bot

```bot.start```


## Development

After checking out the repo, run `bin/setup` to install dependencies. Then, run `rake spec` to run the tests. You can also run `bin/console` for an interactive prompt that will allow you to experiment.

To install this gem onto your local machine, run `bundle exec rake install`. To release a new version, update the version number in `version.rb`, and then run `bundle exec rake release`, which will create a git tag for the version, push git commits and the created tag, and push the `.gem` file to [rubygems.org](https://rubygems.org).

## Contributing

Bug reports and pull requests are welcome on GitHub at https://github.com/[USERNAME]/kanal-interfaces-telegram. This project is intended to be a safe, welcoming space for collaboration, and contributors are expected to adhere to the [code of conduct](https://github.com/[USERNAME]/kanal-interfaces-telegram/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).

## License

The gem is available as open source under the terms of the [MIT License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).

## Code of Conduct

Everyone interacting in the Kanal::Interfaces::Telegram project's codebases, issue trackers, chat rooms and mailing lists is expected to follow the [code of conduct](https://github.com/[USERNAME]/kanal-interfaces-telegram/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).

Commit message:

wip: updated Kanal version in Gemfile; implementation example; work on readme

README.md, after:

# Kanal::Interfaces::Telegram

Welcome to Telegram interface!

Integrate this interface into your Kanal app workflow and it will handle the incoming messages containing plain text or media (images, audio, videos, documents). You can attach media to your responses as well.

This interface relies on telegram-bot-ruby wrapper (https://github.com/atipugin/telegram-bot-ruby) to handle the actual communication with Telegram API.

Upon receiving a message or callback from end-user through telegram-bot-ruby, Telegram interface will transform incoming data into standard Kanal input and feed it to router. Router will form an output (or outputs), which will be sent to Telegram interface. Telegram interface will send a message (or messages) through telegram-bot-ruby wrapper to end-user.

It is advised to use telegram interface with Telegram bridge which converts Telegram interface input/output properties to standard Kanal properties.

## Installation

Install the gem and add to the application's Gemfile by executing:

    $ bundle add kanal-interfaces-telegram

If bundler is not being used to manage dependencies, install the gem by executing:

    $ gem install kanal-interfaces-telegram

## Usage

1. Create instance of Core:

```core = Kanal::Core::Core.new```

2. Create instance of Telegram interface

```bot = Kanal::Interfaces::Telegram::TelegramInterface.new core, "YOUR_TOKEN"```

3. You can use https://github.com/idchlife/kanal-plugins-batteries_bridge to convert Telegram interface specific parameters to general Kanal parameters. You will need to add bridge repo to Gemfile of your project.

```core.register_plugin Kanal::Plugins::Batteries::BatteriesPlugin.new```

4. Add your condition packs (or use conditions provided by Batteries plugin)

```
# Condition pack if no batteries used
core.add_condition_pack :tg_text do
    add_condition :is do
        with_argument
        met? do |input, _core, argument| # 3 arguments provided to the block
            input.tg_text == argument
        end
    end
end

core.router.configure do
    # Response for condition created above
    on :tg_text, is: "foo" do
        respond do
            tg_text "bar"
        end
    end
end

core.router.default_response do
    tg_text "Default response"
end
```

5. Start your bot

```bot.start```

## Development

After checking out the repo, run `bin/setup` to install dependencies. Then, run `rake spec` to run the tests. You can also run `bin/console` for an interactive prompt that will allow you to experiment.

To install this gem onto your local machine, run `bundle exec rake install`. To release a new version, update the version number in `version.rb`, and then run `bundle exec rake release`, which will create a git tag for the version, push git commits and the created tag, and push the `.gem` file to [rubygems.org](https://rubygems.org).

## Contributing

Bug reports and pull requests are welcome on GitHub at https://github.com/[USERNAME]/kanal-interfaces-telegram. This project is intended to be a safe, welcoming space for collaboration, and contributors are expected to adhere to the [code of conduct](https://github.com/[USERNAME]/kanal-interfaces-telegram/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).

## License

The gem is available as open source under the terms of the [MIT License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).

## Code of Conduct

Everyone interacting in the Kanal::Interfaces::Telegram project's codebases, issue trackers, chat rooms and mailing lists is expected to follow the [code of conduct](https://github.com/[USERNAME]/kanal-interfaces-telegram/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).
